documentation/dhcp_service.md, before:

# dhcp_service

[Back to resource list](../README.md#resources)

Manage the DHCPD and DHCPD6 services.

Introduced: v7.0.0

## Actions

- `:create`
- `:delete`
- `:start`
- `:stop`
- `:reload`
- `:enable`
- `:disable`

## Properties

| Name                   | Type          | Default                       | Description                                                            | Allowed Values      |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `ip_version`           | Symbol        | `:ipv4`                       | Select DHCP or DHCPv6 server to configure                              | `:ipv4`, `:ipv6`    |
| `service_name`         | String        | `nil`                         | Custom service name                                                    |                     |
| `systemd_unit_content` | String, Hash  | Platform dependant            | systemd unit file content for service                                  |                     |
| `config_file`          | String        | `/etc/dhcp/dhcpd(6).conf`     | 'The full path to the DHCP server configuration on disk                |                     |
| `config_test`          | True, False   | `true`                        | Perform configuration test before starting, restarting or reload       |                     |

## Examples

```ruby
dhcp_service 'dhcpd' do
  ip_version :ipv4
  action [:create, :enable, :start]
end
```

```ruby
dhcp_service 'dhcpd6' do
  ip_version :ipv6
  action [:create, :enable, :start]
end
```

Commit message:

Enhance the pre service action configuration test
Move the configuration test into a ruby_block to ensure it
is ran during convergence rather than during compilation.

documentation/dhcp_service.md, after:

# dhcp_service

[Back to resource list](../README.md#resources)

Manage the DHCPD and DHCPD6 services.

Introduced: v7.0.0

## Actions

- `:create`
- `:delete`
- `:start`
- `:stop`
- `:reload`
- `:enable`
- `:disable`

## Properties

| Name                   | Type          | Default                       | Description                                                            | Allowed Values      |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `ip_version`           | Symbol        | `:ipv4`                       | Select DHCP or DHCPv6 server to configure                              | `:ipv4`, `:ipv6`    |
| `service_name`         | String        | `nil`                         | Custom service name                                                    |                     |
| `systemd_unit_content` | String, Hash  | Platform dependant            | systemd unit file content for service                                  |                     |
| `config_file`          | String        | `/etc/dhcp/dhcpd(6).conf`     | The full path to the DHCP server configuration on disk                 |                     |
| `config_test`          | True, False   | `true`                        | Perform configuration test before starting, restarting or reload       |                     |
| `config_test_fail_action` | Symbol     | `:raise`                      | Action to perform upon a configuration test failure                    | `:raise`, `:log`    |

## Examples

```ruby
dhcp_service 'dhcpd' do
  ip_version :ipv4
  action [:create, :enable, :start]
end
```

```ruby
dhcp_service 'dhcpd6' do
  ip_version :ipv6
  action [:create, :enable, :start]
end
```
